# Rbcoin 1.0 "Sprout" Guide

Translations available [here](https://github.com/RebornCoin/Rbcoin/tree/master/doc).

Welcome! This guide is intended to get you running on the official Rbcoin network. Rbcoin currently has some limitations: it only officially supports Linux, requires 64-bit, and in some situations requires heavy memory and CPU consumption to create transactions.

Please let us know if you run into snags. We plan to make it less memory/CPU intensive and support more architectures and operating systems in the future.

Note: if you don't have `nproc`, then substitute the number of cores on your system. If the build runs out of memory, try again without the `-j` argument, i.e. just `./rbccutil/build.sh --disable-rust`.

If the build fails, move aside your ``rbcoin`` directory and try again by following the instructions in the [Compile it yourself](#or-compile-it-yourself) section below.

## A quick note about terminology

Rbcoin supports two different kinds of addresses, a _z-addr_ (which begins with a **z**) is an address that uses zero-knowledge proofs and other cryptography to protect user privacy. There are also _t-addrs_ (which begin with a **t**) that are similar to Bitcoin's addresses.

## Requirements

Currently, you will need:

* Linux (easiest with a Debian-based distribution)
* 64-bit processor and OS
* 4 GB of free RAM
* at least 10 GB of free disk space (the size of the block chain increases over time)

The interfaces are a commandline client (`rbcoin-cli`) and a Remote Procedure Call (RPC) interface, which is documented here:

https://github.com/RebornCoin/Rbcoin/blob/master/doc/payment-api.md

## Get started

### Compile it yourself

#### Install dependencies

On Ubuntu/Debian-based systems:

```bash
$ sudo apt-get install \
      build-essential pkg-config libc6-dev m4 g++-multilib \
      autoconf libtool ncurses-dev unzip git python python-zmq \
      zlib1g-dev wget bsdmainutils automake
```

On Fedora-based systems:

```bash
$ sudo dnf install \
      git pkgconfig automake autoconf ncurses-devel python \
      python-zmq wget gtest-devel gcc gcc-c++ libtool patch
```

On RHEL-based systems (including Scientific Linux):

* Install devtoolset-3 and autotools-latest (if not previously installed).
* Run ``scl enable devtoolset-3 'scl enable autotools-latest bash'`` and do the remainder of the build in the shell that this starts.

#### Check GCC version

gcc/g++ 4.9 *or later* is required. Rbcoin has been successfully built using gcc/g++ versions 4.9 to 7.x inclusive. Use ``g++ --version`` to check which version you have.

On Ubuntu Trusty, if your version is too old then you can install gcc/g++ 4.9 as follows:

```
$ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-toolchain-r/test
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install g++-4.9
```

#### Check binutils version

binutils 2.22 *or later* is required. Use ``as --version`` to check which version you have, and upgrade if necessary.

#### Fetch the software and parameter files

Fetch our repository with git and run `fetch-params.sh` like so:

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/RebornCoin/Rbcoin.git
$ cd Rbcoin/
$ ./zcutil/fetch-params.sh
```

This will fetch our Sprout proving and verifying keys (the final ones created in the [Parameter Generation Ceremony](https://github.com/rbcoin/mpc)), and place them into `~/.rbcoin-params/`. These keys are just under 911MB in size, so it may take some time to download them.

The message printed by ``git checkout`` about a "detached head" is normal and does not indicate a problem.

#### Build

Ensure you have successfully installed all system package dependencies as described above. Then run the build, e.g.:

```bash
$ ./zcutil/build.sh --disable-rust -j$(nproc)
```

This should compile our dependencies and build `rbcoind`. (Note: if you don't have `nproc`, then substitute the number of cores on your system. If the build runs out of memory, try again without the `-j` argument, i.e. just `./rbccutil/build.sh --disable-rust`.
)


## Configuration

Create the `~/.rbcoin` directory and place a configuration file at `~/.rbcoin/rbcoin.conf` using the following commands:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/.rbcoin
echo "addnode=mainnet.reborncoin.co" >~/.rbcoin/rbcoin.conf
echo "rpcuser=username" >>~/.rbcoin/rbcoin.conf
echo "rpcpassword=`head -c 32 /dev/urandom | base64`" >>~/.rbcoin/rbcoin.conf
```

Note that this will overwrite any `rbcoin.conf` settings you may have added from testnet. (If you want to run on testnet, you can retain a `rbcoin.conf` from testnet.) The commands above also assign a random password to avoid [potential security issues with access to the RPC interface](https://github.com/rbcoin/rbcoin/blob/master/doc/security-warnings.md#rpc-interface).

## Running Rbcoin:

Now, run rbcoind!

```bash
$ ./src/rbcoind
```

To run it in the background (without the node metrics screen that is normally displayed) use ``./src/rbcoind --daemon``.

You should be able to use the RPC after it finishes loading. Here's a quick way to test:

```bash
$ ./src/rbcoin-cli getinfo
```

**NOTE**: If you are familiar with bitcoind's RPC interface, you can use many of those calls to send RBC between `t-addr` addresses. We do not support the 'Accounts' feature (which has also been deprecated in ``bitcoind``) — only the empty string ``""`` can be used as an account name.


To see the peers you are connected to:

```bash
$ ./src/rbcoin-cli getpeerinfo
```

## Using Rbcoin

First, you want to obtain Rbcoin. You can purchase them from an exchange, from other users, or sell goods and services for them! Exactly how to obtain Rbcoin (safely) is not in scope for this document, but you should be careful. Avoid scams!

### Generating a t-addr

Let's generate a t-addr first.

```bash
$ ./src/rbcoin-cli getnewaddress
t14oHp2v54vfmdgQ3v3SNuQga8JKHTNi2a1
```

### Receiving Rbcoin with a z-addr

Now let's generate a z-addr.

```bash
$ ./src/rbcoin-cli z_getnewaddress
zcBqWB8VDjVER7uLKb4oHp2v54v2a1jKd9o4FY7mdgQ3gDfG8MiZLvdQga8JK3t58yjXGjQHzMzkGUxSguSs6ZzqpgTNiZG
```

This creates a private address and stores its key in your local wallet file. Give this address to the sender!

A z-addr is pretty large, so it's easy to make mistakes with them. Let's put it in an environment variable to avoid mistakes:

```bash
$ ZADDR='zcBqWB8VDjVER7uLKb4oHp2v54v2a1jKd9o4FY7mdgQ3gDfG8MiZLvdQga8JK3t58yjXGjQHzMzkGUxSguSs6ZzqpgTNiZG'
```

To get a list of all addresses in your wallet for which you have a spending key, run this command:

```bash
$ ./src/rbcoin-cli z_listaddresses
```

You should see something like:
```json
[
    "zcA6qngiR3U7HxYopyTWkaDLwYBd83D5MT7Jb9gpgTzPLMZytzRbtdPP1Syv4RvRgHeoZrJWSask3DyfwXG9DGPMWMvX7aC",
    "zcBqWB8VDjVER7uLKb4oHp2v54v2a1jKd9o4FY7mdgQ3gDfG8MiZLvdQga8JK3t58yjXGjQHzMzkGUxSguSs6ZzqpgTNiZG"
]
```

Great! Now, send your z-addr to the sender. You should eventually see their transaction when checking:

```bash
$ ./src/rbcoin-cli z_listreceivedbyaddress "$ZADDR"
```
```json
[
    {
        "txid" : "af1665b317abe538148114a45322f28151925501c081949cc7a5207ef21cb750",
        "amount" : 1.23,
        "memo" : "48656c6c6f20ceb2210000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000"
    }
]
```

### Sending coins with your z-addr

If someone gives you their z-addr...

```bash
$ FRIEND='zcCDe8krwEt1ozWmGZhBDWrcUfmK3Ue5D5z1f6u2EZLLCjQq7mBRkaAPb45FUH4Tca91rF4R1vf983ukR71kHyXeED4quGV'
```


### Additional operations for rbcoin-cli
As Rbcoin is an extension of bitcoin, rbcoin-cli supports all commands that are part of the Bitcoin Core API (as of version 0.11.2), https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Original_Bitcoin_client/API_calls_list

For a full list of new commands that are not part of bitcoin API (mostly addressing operations on z-addrs) see https://github.com/RebornCoin/Rbcoin/blob/master/doc/payment-api.md

To list all rbcoin commands, use `./src/rbcoin-cli help`.

To get help with a particular command, use `./src/rbcoin-cli help <command>`.